DOUBTS AND ANSWER (ML)

1. Why do we drop price_in_lakhs?
In Machine Learning, we have Features (the questions) and the Target (the answer).

Imagine taking a math test where the answer is already written at the bottom of the question. You wouldn't learn any math; you’d just look at the answer!

If we leave price_in_lakhs inside the X (Features) variable, the model will see the answer while it's "studying." By dropping it from X, we force the model to find the relationship between the house size/location and the price.

2. What is random_state=42?
When we use train_test_split, the computer shuffles your data like a deck of cards before picking 80% for training.

If you run the code again, the computer will shuffle differently, and you’ll get a slightly different "Predicted Price."

By setting random_state=42, you are "locking" the shuffle. It ensures that every time you run the code, you get the exact same split.

Why 42? It’s a famous joke in the science-fiction community (from The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy), but you can use any number (0, 1, 100). It just acts as a seed for the randomizer.

3. Why the f in print(f"...")?
This is called an F-String (Formatted String). It was introduced in Python 3.6 to make printing variables much easier.

Without f: You have to do this: print("The price is " + str(price)) (clunky and annoying).

With f: You can put variables directly inside the text using curly brackets: print(f"The price is {price}").

It tells Python: "Hey, look inside the curly brackets and treat whatever is in there as a variable, not just plain text."

4. What is :.2f?
This is a formatting instruction for numbers.

: means "start formatting here."

.2 means "show only 2 digits after the decimal point."

f means "treat this as a Float (a decimal number)."

Example: If the model predicts 150.3333333333333, using {price:.2f} will neatly print: 150.33. It makes your output look professional instead of showing 10 unnecessary decimal places!

5.what is coefficient and frequencies?
While the Target is the answer key and Features are the questions, the Coefficients tell you how much each question matters to the final answer.

frequencies refers to the actual counts of how many times a specific event or category occurs in your data.
Think of it as a tally system used to compare what you actually saw (Observed) versus what you mathematically expected to see (Expected) if there was no relationship between your features and the target.